# curriculum-planner-gui
 
This project has been implemented to learn Python and Python GUI from scratch for CENG206 - Programming Languages lesson. In this project, automatic course planner has been implemented for a curriculum semester of a department with using Python. In the curriculum, there are several courses for each year of the curriculum. The program assign a classroom and a time slot for each course in the curriculum. Courses in the same year should not be intersected with each other. There can be some intersection between courses of different years. There are 2 different types of the classroom: big and small. Mandatory courses in the curriculum must be assigned to a big classroom. Elective courses can be assigned to a big or small classroom according to the availability of them. There is a limited number of dedicated classrooms for the department. The number of each type of classroom have been read from a file. Besides, for each weekday there are 2-time slots available, morning and afternoon. In the department curriculum, there are some service courses which are given by another department at the university. The time slot of these courses is fixed and predefined. Therefore, these lessons can not be assigned different time slots for those courses other than the requested time slot. Furthermore, some instructors may not be available for some time slots. Thus, the program should respect these busy time slots for the respective courses. The all data were obtained by reading from the given files mentioned. In the end, the program will print the course schedule for the department. In this schedule, there is no intersection between courses for a year of the curriculum and respect to all constraints. 

The program asks to the user in which path the data files are located on the computer with a GUI. 4 different files must be entered indicating the busy, specifying the lessons, specifying the service lessons and specifying the class type and numbers. After the file paths are entered correctly, the program uses the algorithm to place the lessons on the appropriate days and time periods. If the lessons are successfully placed, the weekly lesson plan appears. If an error occurs, the program notifies the user of the error and requests that the data be corrected and entered again.
